# Space Wallet server

## Features

-   Multiple environment ready (development, production)
-   Custom email/password user system with basic security and blocking for preventing brute force attacks.
-   Compressed responses.
-   Secured HTTP headers.
-   CORS ready.
-   Cache ready (Redis).
-   HTTP request logger in development mode.
-   i18n ready (for sending emails in multiple languages).
-   User roles.
-   Pagination ready.
-   User profile.
-   Users list for admin area.
-   Cities model and controller example.
-   Login access log with IP, browser and country location (for country it looks for the header `cf-ipcountry` that CloudFlare creates when protecting your website).
-   API autogenerated documentation by Postman.
-   API collection example for Postman.
-   Testing with mocha/chai for API endpoints.
-   NPM scripts for cleaning and seeding the MongoDB database.
-   NPM script for keeping good source code formatting using prettier and ESLint.
-   Use of ESLint for good coding practices.
-   Mailer example with Nodemailer and Mailgun.
-   Ability to refresh token
-   JWT Tokens, make requests with a token after login with `Authorization` header with value `Bearer yourToken` where `yourToken` is the **signed and encrypted token** given in the response from the login process.

## Requirements

-   Node.js **10+**
-   MongoDB **3.6+**
-   Redis **5.0+**

## How to run

### Database cleaning and seeding samples

There are 3 available commands for this: `fresh`, `clean` and `seed`.

```bash
npm run command
```

-   `fresh` cleans and then seeds the database with dynamic data.
-   `clean` cleans the database.
-   `seed` seeds the database with dynamic data.

### Running in development mode (lifting API server)

```bash
npm run dev
```

You will know server is running by checking the output of the command `npm run dev`

```bash
****************************
*    Starting Server
*    Port: 3000
*    NODE_ENV: development
*    Database: MongoDB
*    DB Connection: OK
****************************
```

### Running tests

It´s a good practice to do tests at your code, so a sample of how to do that in `mocha/chai` is also included in the `/test` directory

```bash
npm run test
```

### Formatting code

Format your code with prettier by typing:

```bash
npm run format
```

### Formatting markdown files

Format all your markdown files with remark by typing:

```bash
npm run remark
```

### Linting code

Lint your code with ESLint by typing:

```bash
npm run lint
```

## Usage

Once everything is set up to test API routes either use Postman or any other api testing application. Default username/password combination for login is `admin@admin.com/12345`.

### API documentation

<https://documenter.getpostman.com/view/487539/RWaHwoLV>

### Postman API example collection

You can import the example collection to Postman. To import, click the import button located and select `postman-example.json` located within the root directory.

Go to `manage environments` to create environments for development, production, etc. On each of the environments you create you will need to:

1.  Create a new key `authToken` and within the `/login` request this value is automatically updated after a successfull login through a script located in the `tests` tab. Each time you make a request to the API it will send `Authorization` header with the `token` value in the request, you can check this on the headers of users or cities endpoints in the Postman example.

2.  Create a second key `server` with the url of your server, for development mode use <http://localhost:3000>

This is a REST API, so it works using the following HTTP methods:

-   GET (Read): Gets a list of items, or a single item
-   POST (Create): Creates an item
-   PATCH (Update): Updates an item
-   DELETE: Deletes an item

### Creating new models

If you need to add more models to the project just create a new file in `/app/models/` and it will be loaded dynamically.

### Creating new routes

If you need to add more routes to the project just create a new file in `/app/routes/` and it will be loaded dynamically.

### Creating new controllers

When you create a new controller file, try to also create another file with validations. Ex. `countries.js` and `countries.validate.js`. An example of this is included in the repository.

## Bugs or improvements

Feel free to report any bugs or improvements. Pull requests are always welcome.

## License

This project is open-sourced software licensed under the MIT License. See the LICENSE file for more information.
